Doctype ViewHelper Factory (#59)
laminas/laminas-view: docs/book/helpers/doctype.md

The `Doctype` helper is a concrete implementation of the
[Placeholder helper](placeholder.md).

## Configuration and Basic Usage

You may specify the doctype at any time. However, helpers that depend on the
doctype for their output will recognize it only after you have set it.

> There are multiple ways to set the doctype:

Reviewer: This section should be reverted because "Basic Usage" is the first correct entry. The previous version was okay.

Author: Done! I borrowed the headline from the `asset` documentation 🙂 

Maybe you should come up with a Documentation guide, like the [Maintainers guide](https://github.com/laminas/technical-steering-committee/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md) 😉

### Generic application configuration

`\Laminas\View\Helper\Service\DoctypeFactory` checks the application configuration, making it possible to
define the doctype through your configuration (e.g. a `ConfigProvider`):

```php
return [
    'view_helper_config' => [
        'doctype' => 'HTML5',
    ],

> ];

Reviewer: The headline should be "Usage in a Mezzio Application" and the second should level be used. The entire section should describe the usage in a Mezzio application.

Author: done

```

### `laminas-mvc` configuration

An application based off the [laminas-mvc-skeleton](https://github.com/laminas/laminas-mvc-skeleton)

> comes with its own factory in the `ViewHelperManager` and can be configured like this:

Reviewer: The headline should be "Usage in a laminas-mvc Application" and the second level should be used.

Reviewer: The link to the "ViewManager" from the end of the page can be added here. [The last headline and paragraph](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-view/helpers/doctype/#laminas-mvc-view-manager) of the current page can be removed then.

Author: done!

```php
// module/Application/config/module.config.php:
return [
    /* ... */
    'view_manager' => [

>         'doctype' => 'HTML5',

Author: When writing the docs I noticed that the doctype has to be in uppercase, even in `laminas-mvc`.

@weierophinney @froschdesign Is it okay if I change that here or do you want me to change that in a separate PR? Or maybe even change `Doctype` itself to accept lowercase?

Reviewer: @rieschl
> Is it okay if I change that here…

Using a separate commit on this pull request is enough. Btw. good catch! 👍 

> Or maybe even change Doctype itself to accept lowercase?

Good idea! Create an issue report or a pull request – both are welcome.

Author: Thanks for the quick reply!

> @rieschl
> > Is it okay if I change that here…
> 
> Using a separate commit on this pull request is enough.

Will do!

> Btw. good catch! 👍 

Thanks. finding and fixing bugs, code reviewing and keeping code quality (tools) up to date are my main tasks in my biggest project, so I kind of have an eye for things like that 🙂

> 
> > Or maybe even change Doctype itself to accept lowercase?
> 
> Good idea! Create an issue report or a pull request – both are welcome.
> 

okay I'll come up with a PR, but probably not today anymore.

Author: > 
> Using a separate commit on this pull request is enough.

Done :)

<?php echo $this->doctype() ?>
```

## Usage in a Mezzio Application

> `\Laminas\View\Helper\Service\DoctypeFactory` checks the application configuration, making it possible to
> define the doctype through your configuration (e.g. a `ConfigProvider`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The factory `Laminas\View\Helper\Service\DoctypeFactory` checks the application configuration, making it possible to define the doctype through your configuration, e.g. `config/autoload/mezzio.global.php`:
```

```php
return [
    'view_helper_config' => [

>         'doctype' => 'HTML5',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        'doctype' => Laminas\View\Helper\Doctype::HTML5,
```

    ],
];
```

> ## Laminas MVC View Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage in a laminas-mvc Application
```
We already use this wording in other places.

Author: argh damn. sorry, I already had it and then pasted the heading from the last paragraph over it 🤦‍♂️

> If you're running a [LaminasMvc](https://github.com/laminas/laminas-mvc-skeleton) application, you should specify doctype via the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're running a [laminas-mvc](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/) application, you should specify doctype via the
```

[ViewManager](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/services/#viewmanager) service.

```php
// module/Application/config/module.config.php:
return [
    /* ... */
    'view_manager' => [

>         'doctype' => 'HTML5',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        'doctype' => Laminas\View\Helper\Doctype::HTML5,
```

<?php echo $this->doctype() ?>
```

## Usage in a Mezzio Application

The factory `Laminas\View\Helper\Service\DoctypeFactory` checks the application configuration, making it possible to
define the doctype through your configuration, e.g. `config/autoload/mezzio.global.php`
or a `ConfigProvider.php` in a module.

```php

> // config/autoload/mezzio.global.php

Reviewer: Please add the filename before the code example because there are always two parts for this information: what kind of file is this and what is the name or path.

Examples are:

> Create a file for the module configuration called `module.config.php` under `laminas-mvc-tutorial/module/Album/config/`:

> …in a factory, e.g. `src/Album/Controller/AlbumControllerFactory.php`:

> …in a module configuration file, e.g. `module/Album/config/module.config.php`:

In a code comment this would be too long and misplaced.

Thanks in advance!

_(@settermjd and I are still working on documentation writer's guide and we hope to publish it soon.)_

Author: done, thanks!

I'm looking forward to a writer's guide! Then hopefully I'll get it right one the first try 🙂

<?php echo $this->doctype() ?>
```

## Usage in a Mezzio Application

The factory `Laminas\View\Helper\Service\DoctypeFactory` checks the application configuration, making it possible to
define the doctype through your configuration, e.g. `config/autoload/mezzio.global.php`
or a `ConfigProvider.php` in a module.

For example, add the following lines to your `config/autoload/mezzio.global.php` file to set the `Doctype` to HTML5:

```php
return [
    /* ... */
    'view_helper_config' => [
        'doctype' => \Laminas\View\Helper\Doctype::HTML5,
    ],
];
```

## Usage in a laminas-mvc Application

If you're running a [laminas-mvc](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/) application, you should specify doctype via the
[ViewManager](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/services/#viewmanager) service.

> Add the following lines to your `module/Application/config/module.config.php` file to set the `Doctype` to HTML5:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following lines to your `config/autoload/global.php` file to set the `Doctype` to HTML5:
```

This configuration is related to the entire application and not to a module. The same is already done in the previous section for Mezzio. (This is also wrong in the [skeleton application](https://github.com/laminas/laminas-mvc-skeleton/blob/12ff936b69caf63797b9c06a9f3a5d95482be913/module/Application/config/module.config.php#L48-L50).)

Author: Thanks! Yes, I was always wondering why global stuff was in the `module` config. Do you want me to submit a PR against laminas-mvc-skeleton to fix that?
